---
title: "To Mary Yonge, June 15th 1899"
date: "June 15th 1899"
location: "Elderfield Otterbourne"
manuscript: "MS West Devon Area Record Office Ac 1092/18"
post_id: 3408
---

'

My dear [Mary (Mary Yonge)](../people/1626.html) I am glad you have been keeping the wedding day with [Charlotte (Charlotte Cordelia Yonge)](../people/1587.html).[^1] I am afraid that the hotel must spoil sitting out of doors except in front of the house. I am writing now in the garden while [Blanche Webber (Blanche C. Webber)](../people/1480.html), who is here to recover from the remains of the influenza is lying down in her own room. She had it at Easter and does not quite get over the remains, so she is come to breathe her native air here, till [Major (Robert Woollcombe)](../people/1559.html) and [Mrs Woollcombe (Mary Woollcombe)](../people/1558.html) come on the 22d. I believe they go to Dorking today. I think it is rather cruel of [Mr Bastard (Baldwin John Pollexfen Bastard)](../people/120.html) to forbid the parties from Plymouth as they do not molest him.[^2] I was asked the other day if Kitley was a desirable place for a young laundry maid [GFS (Girls' Friendly Society, The)](../organizations/23.html). I could not say that I thought I should choose it. I had a nice letter today from one of our [Barnardo (Dr. Barnardo's Homes)](../organizations/115.html) girls who was sent to Canada five years ago. She has always been in the same place, and has had two prizes from her Sunday school at Toronto, where she was pleased to find Yonge Street.[^3] She had been on an expedition in a steamer to see Niagara, but they only had ten minutes there -- rather American like the man who said enough of Lago Maggiore in one flash of lightning- My budlea\[sic\] is looking very pretty. No one but Devonshire people ever seem to have seen one. My guests always ask what it is. I kept [Charles (Charles Burell Yonge)](../people/1656.html)'s wedding at a garden party at the [Bishop of Guildford (George Henry Sumner)](../people/1382.html)'s[^4], where among many other people I met Mrs Spender[^5], who was pleased to hear about the wedding. [Her son (Edward Harold Spender)](../people/1356.html) has written an interesting [*book (Through the High Pyrenees)*](../bibliography/general/600.html) about the Pyrenees, starting from the Mediterranean, which I never heard about before. I am so glad Charles did not consent to the display of wedding presents, I always dislike the notices so much, but then as [Mr Prynne (George Rundle Prynne)](../people/1214.html)said when his father and mother were married 'The Yonges are not demonstrative' Poor old Mr Prynne, he and [Canon Carter (Thomas Thellusson Carter)](../people/268.html) are nearly the only survivors of the old days.[^6] Canon Carter still preaches, though he is 90. We have had scattered up and down the village a tract with a regular attack on the [Archbishop (Edward White Benson)](../people/140.html), called 'The Real Presence' evidently written by an actual NonConformist. Scraps of it have been picked up along the road so some at least must have been torn up. [Henry Bowles (Henry Albany Bowles)](../people/184.html) goes to Switzerland on the 17th of July, and [Alethea (Louisa Alethea Bowles)](../people/182.html) and the children to Holmwood close to Dorking. [Joanna (Joanna Angela Cromie)](../people/388.html)'s two little boys sail with their nurse on the 26th. She has been to a ball at Gibraltar and it will be much pleasanter than Morocco.

Our [GFS (English Church Union, The)](../organizations/22.html) festival is to be at Cranbury on the 21th. If the weather holds it will be beautiful but rain is wanted, though not by the hay which is almost got in. [Charlotte (Charlotte Cordelia Yonge)](../people/1587.html) must be enjoying the garden at Slade, which [Edmund Morshead (Edmund Doidge Anderson Morshead)](../people/42.html) and I agreed was the most beautiful we knew. Edmund and [Mary (Mary Anderson Morshead)](../people/2084.html) called the other day

your most affec C M Yonge

---

[^1]: The Rev. Charles Burell Yonge (1866-1943) married Catherine Ada Helena Bowen on 14 June 1899.
[^2]: The Bastard family of Kitley, neighbours of the Yonges of Puslinch, had in their grounds the Kitley caves, a local beauty spot.  No doubt trippers from Plymouth were increasing in number with improved transport and more leisure.
[^3]: Yonge Street, a principal thoroughfare in Toronto, was named after Sir George Yonge (1732-1812), 5th Bt., minister of war in 1782.
[^4]: The Bishop of Guildford, the Rt. Rev. George Sumner, and his wife Mary, founder of the Mothers' Union, lived in the Close at Winchester.
[^5]: [[person:1357]This is a puzzling reference. Lily (Headland) Spender] (1835-1895), journalist and novelist, mother of Harold Spender, who had written about the Pyrenees, had been dead for four years;  CMY perhaps confused her with her sister-in-law, Ellen (Rendle) Spender, the wife of Edward Spender (1834–1878), founder of the Plymouth newspaper the <i>Western Morning News</i>.
[^7]: The Rev. George Rundle Prynne (1818-1903), Vicar of St. Peter’s, Plymouth, perhaps officiated at the wedding of Duke Yonge and Charlotte Pode.  Like the Rev. Canon Thomas Thellusson Carter (1808-1901) he was conspicuous in several of the bitter public disputes about Tractarian practices.
